HOW TO MIX DRINKS;
OR,
THE BON-VIVANT'S COMPANION.

PUNCH.
To make punch of any sort in perfection, the ambrosial essence of the lemon must be extracted by rubbing lumps of sugar on the rind, which breaks the delicate little vessels that contain the essence, and at the same time absorbs it. This, and making the mixture sweet and strong, using tea instead of water, and thoroughly amalgamating all the compounds, so that the taste of neither the bitter, the sweet, the spirit, nor the element, shall be perceptible one over the other, is the grand secret, only to be acquired by practice.
In making hot toddy, or hot punch, you must put in the spirits before the water: in cold punch, grog, &c., the other way.
The precise portions of spirit and water, or even of the acidity and sweetness, can have no general rule, as scarcely two persons make punch alike.

Brandy Punch.
(Use large bar glass)
1 table-spoonful raspberry syrup. 2         do.           white sugar. 1 wine-glass water,       do.      brandy.  small-sized lemon. 2 slices of orange, 1 piece of pine-apple.
Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and dress the top with berries in season; sip through a straw.
Brandy Punch.
(For a party of twenty.)
1 gallon of water. 3 quarts of brandy.   pint of Jamaica rum. 2 lbs. of sugar. Juice of 6 lemons. 3 oranges sliced. 1 pine-apple, pared, and cut up. 1 gill of Curaçoa. 2 gills of raspberry syrup. Ice, and add berries in season.
Mix the materials well together in a large bowl, and you have a splendid punch.

Mississippi Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
1 wine-glass of brandy.       do.           Jamaica rum.       do.            Bourbon whiskey.       do.            water.  table-spoonful of powdered white sugar.  of a large lemon. Fill a tumbler with shaved ice.
The above must be well shaken, and to those who like their draughts "like linked sweetness long drawn out," let them use a glass tube or straw to sip the nectar through. The top of this punch should be ornamented with small pieces of orange, and berries in season.

Hot Brandy and Rum Punch.
(For a party of fifteen.)
1 quart of Jamaica rum. 1     do.    Cognac brandy. 1 lb. of white loaf-sugar. 4 lemons. 3 quarts of boiling water. 1 teaspoonful of nutmeg.
Rub the sugar over the lemons until it has absorbed all the yellow part of the skins, then put the sugar into a punch-bowl; add the ingredients well together, pour over them the boiling water, stir well together; add the rum, brandy and nutmeg; mix thoroughly, and the punch will be ready to serve. As we have before said, it is very important, in making good punch, that all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated; and, to insure success, the process of mixing must be diligently attended to. Allow a quart for four persons; but this information must be taken cum grano salts; for the capacities of persons for this kind of beverage are generally supposed to vary considerably.

Irish Whiskey Punch.
This is the genuine Irish beverage. It is generally made one-third pure whiskey, two-thirds boiling water, in which the sugar has been dissolved. If lemon punch, the rind is rubbed on the sugar, and a small proportion of juice added before the whiskey is poured in.

Cold Whiskey Punch.
(For a party.)
This beverage ought always to be made with boiling water, and allowed to concoct and cool for a day or two before it is put on the table. In this way, the materials get more intensely amalgamated than cold water and cold whiskey ever get. As to the beautiful mutual adaptation of cold rum and cold water, that is beyond all praise, being one of Nature's most exquisite achievements. (See " Glasgow Punchy No. 29.)
* Irish whiskey is not fit to drink until it is three years old. The best whiskey for this purpose is Kenahan's LL whiskey.

Scotch Whiskey Punch.
Steep the thin yellow shavings of lemon peel in the whiskey, which should be Glenlivet or Islay, of the best quality; the sugar should be dissolved in boiling water. As it requires genius to make whiskey punch, it would be impertinent to give proportions. (See "Spread Eagle Punch," No. 39.)

Whiskey Punch.
(Use small bar glass)
1 wine-glass whiskey (Irish or Scotch). 2      do.        boiling water. Sugar to taste.
Dissolve the sugar well with 1 wine-glass of the water, then pour in the whiskey, and add the balance of the water, sweeten to taste, and put in a small piece of lemon rind, or a thin slice of lemon.

Gin Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
1 table-spoonful of raspberry syrup. 2     do.       do.       white sugar. 1 wine-glass of water.       do.          gin.  small-sized lemon. 2 slices of orange. 1 piece of pine-apple. Fill the tumbler with shaved ice.
Shake well, and ornament the top with berries in season. Sip through a glass tube or straw.

Gin Punch.
(From a recipe by Soyer.)
pint of old gin. 1 gill of maraschino. The juice of two lemons. The rind of half a lemon. Four ounces of syrup. 1 quart bottle of German Seltzer water. Ice well.

Champagne Punch, (Per bottle.)
1 quart bottle of wine,  lb. of sugar.    1 orange sliced.    The juice of a lemon.    3 slices of pine apple.    1 wine-glass of raspberry or strawberry syrup.    Ornament with fruits in season, and serve in champagne goblets.
This can be made in any quantity by observing the proportions of the ingredients as given above. Four bottles of wine make a gallon, and a gallon is generally sufficient for fifteen persons in a mixed party. For a good champagne punch, see "Rocky Mountain Punch" No. 43.

Sherry Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
2 wine-glasses of sherry. 1 table-spoonful of sugar. 2 or 3 slices of orange. 2   do.   do.      lemon.
Fill tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and ornament with berries in season. Sip through a straw.

Claret Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
table-spoonful of sugar. 1 slice of lemon. 2 or 3 do. orange.
Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, and then pour in your claret, shake well, and ornament with berries in season. Place a straw in the glass. To make a quantity of claret punch, see "Imperial Punch" No. 41.

Sauterne Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
The same as claret punch, using Sauterne instead of claret.

Port Wine Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
The same as claret punch, using port wine instead of claret, and ornament with berries in season.

Vanilla Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
1 table-spoonful of sugar. 1 wine-glass of brandy. The juice of  of a lemon.
Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, ornament with one or two slices of lemon, and flavor with a few drops of vanilla extract.
This is a delicious drink, and should be imbibed through a glass tube or straw.

Pine-Apple Punch.
(For a party of ten.)
4 bottles of champagne. 1 pint of Jamaica rum. 1 do. brandy. 1 gill of Curaçoa. Juice of 4 lemons. 4 pine-apples sliced. Sweeten to taste with pulverized white sugar.
Put the pine-apple with one pound of sugar in a glass bowl, and let them stand until the sugar is well soaked in the pine-apple, then add all the other ingredients, except the champagne. Let this mixture stand in ice for about an hour, then add the champagne. Place a large block of ice in the centre of the bowl, and ornament it with loaf sugar, sliced orange, and other fruits in season.
Serve in champagne glasses.
Pine-apple punch is sometimes made by adding sliced pine-apple to brandy punch.

Orgeat Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
table-spoonful of orgeat syrup.  wine-glass of brandy.
Juice of  a lemon, and fill the tumbler with shaved ice. Shake well, ornament with berries in season, and dash port wine on top.
Place the straw, as represented in cut of mint julep.

Curaçoa Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
1 table spoonful of sugar. 1 wine-glass of brandy.  do. do. Jamaica rum. 1 do. do. water.  pony glass of Curaçoa. The juice of half a lemon.
Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and ornament with fruits of the season; sip the nectar through a straw.

Roman Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
1 table-spoonful of sugar. 1     do.      do.        raspberry syrup. 1 tea-spoonful of Curaçoa. 1 wine-glass of Jamaica rum.     do.    do.     brandy. The juice of half a lemon.
Fill with shaved ice, shake well, dash with port wine, and ornament with fruits in season. Imbibe through a straw.

Milk Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
1 table-spoonful of fine white sugar. 2           do.             water. 1 wine-glass of Cognac brandy.           do.              Santa Cruz rum.  Tumblerful of shaved ice.
Fill with milk, shake the ingredients well together, and grate a little nutmeg on top.

Hot Milk Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
This punch is made the same as the above, with the exception that hot milk is used, and no ice.

English Milk Punch.
Put the following ingredients into a very clean pitcher, viz.:
The juice of six lemons. The rind of two do. 1 lb. of sugar. 1 pine-apple, peeled, sliced and pounded. 6 cloves. 20 coriander seeds. 1 small stick of cinnamon. 1 pint of brandy. 1    do   rum. *1 gill of arrack. 1 cup of strong green tea. 1 quart of boiling water.
The boiling water to be added last; cork this down to prevent evaporation, and allow these ingredients to steep for at least six hours; then add a quart of hot milk and the juice of two lemons; mix, and filter through a jelly bag; and when the punch has passed bright, put it away in tight-corked bottles. This punch is intended to be iced for drinking.

English Milk Punch.
(Another method.)
This seductive and nectareous drink can also be made by the directions herewith given:
To two quarts of water add one quart of milk. Mix one
quart of old Jamaica rum with two of French brandy, and put the spirit to the milk, stirring it for a short time; let it stand for an hour, but do not suffer any one of delicate appetite to see the melange in its present state, as the sight might create a distaste for the punch when perfected. Filter through blotting-paper into bottles; and should you find that the liquid is cloudy, which it should not be, you may clarify it by adding a small portion of isinglass to each bottle. The above receipt will furnish you with half a dozen of punch.
* See No. BO.

Punch à la Ford.
(A recipe from Benson E. Hill, Esq, author of The Epicure's Almanac.)
The late General Ford, who for many years was the commanding engineer at Dover, kept a most hospitable board, and used to make punch on a large scale, after the following method:
He would select three dozen of lemons, the coats of which were smooth, and whose rinds were not too thin; these he would peel with a sharp knife into a large earthen vessel, taking care that none of the rind should be detached but that portion in which the cells are placed, containing the essential oil; when he had completed the first part of the process, he added two pounds of lump-sugar, and stirred the peel and sugar together with an oar-shaped piece of wood, for nearly half an hour, thereby extracting a greater quantity of the essential oil. Boiling water was next poured into the vessel, and the whole well stirred, until the sugar was completely dissolved. The lemons were then cut and squeezed, the juice strained from the kernels; these were placed in a separate jug, and boiling water poured upon them, the general being aware that the pips were enveloped in a thick mucilage, full of flavor; half the
lemon juice was now thrown in; and as soon as the kernels were free from their transparent coating, their liquor was strained and added.
The sherbet was now tasted; more acid or more sugar applied as required, and care taken not to render the lemonade too watery. "Rich of the fruit, and plenty of sweetness," was the general's maxim. The sherbet was then measured, and to every three quarts a pint of Cognac brandy and a pint of old Jamaica rum were allotted, the spirit being well stirred as poured in; bottling immediately followed, and, when completed, the beverage was kept in a cold cellar, or tank, till required. At the general's table I have frequently drunk punch thus made, more than six months old; and found it much improved by time and a cool atmosphere.

Punch Jelly.
Make a good bowl of punch, a la Ford, already described. To every pint of punch add an ounce and a half of isinglass, dissolved in a quarter of a pint of water (about half a tumbler full); pour this into the punch whilst quite hot, and then fill your moulds, taking care that they are not disturbed until the jelly is completely set.
Orange, lemon, or calf s-foot jelly, not used at dinner,, can be converted into punch jelly for the evening, by following the above directions, only taking care to omit a portion of the acid prescribed in making the sherbet.
This preparation is a very agreeable refreshment on a cold night, but should be used in moderation; the strength of the punch is so artfully concealed by its admixture with the gelatine, that many persons, particularly of the softer sex, have been tempted to partake so plentifully of it as to render them somewhat unfit for waltzing or quadrilling after supper.

Gin Punch. (For bottling.)
Following General Ford's plan, as already described, for making sherbet, add good gin, in the proper proportion before prescribed; this, bottled and kept in a cool cellar or cistern, will be found an economical and excellent summer drink.

Glasgow Punch.
(From a recipe in the possession of Dr. Shelton Mackenzie.)
Melt lump-sugar in cold water, with the juice of a couple of lemons, passed through a fine hair-strainer. This is sherbet, and must be well mingled. Then add old Jamaica rum—one part of rum to five of sherbet. Cut a couple of limes in two, and run each section rapidly around the edge of the jug or bowl, gently squeezing in some of the delicate acid. This done, the punch is made. Imbibe.

Regent's Punch.
(For a party of twenty.)
The ingredients for this renowned panels are:—
3 bottles champagne. 1     do.   Hockheimer. 1     do.   Curaçoa. 1     do.   Cognac.     do.   Jamaica rum. 2     do.   Madeira. 2     do.   Seltzer, or plain soda-water. 4 lbs. bloom raisins.
To which add oranges, lemons, rock candy, and instead of water, green tea to taste. Refrigerate with all the icy power of the Arctic.

Regent's Punch.
(Another recipe.)
(From the Bordeaux Wine and Liquor Guide.)
pint, each, strong hot green tea, lemon juice, and capillaire.*
1 pint, each, rum, brandy, arrack, and Curaçoa.
1 bottle of champagne; mix, and slice a pine-apple into it
For still another method of compounding this celebrated punch, see recipe No. 295, in "The Manual for the Manufacture of Cordials, etc." in the latter part of this work.

Raspberry Punch.
(From a recipe in the Bordeaux Wine and Liquor Guide.)
gill of raspberry juice, or vinegar.  lb. lump-sugar.  pints of boiling water.
Infuse half an hour, strain, add 1 pint of porter, J to 1 pint, each, of rum and brandy (or either 14 to 2 pints), and add more warm water and sugar, if desired weaker or sweeter. A liqueur of glass of Curaçoa, noyau, or maraschino, improves it.

National Guard 7th Regiment Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
1 table-spoonful of sugar. The juice of a  of a lemon. 1 wine-glass of brandy. 1   do.   do.       Catawba wine. Flavor with raspberry syrup.
Fill the glass with shaved ice. Shake and mix thoroughly
then ornament with slices of orange, pineapple, and berries in season, and dash with Jamaica rum. This delicious beverage should be imbibed through a straw.
* See recipes Nos. 65 and 66.

St. Charles' Punch.
(Use large bar glass.)
1 table-spoonful of sugar. 1 wine-glass of port wine. 1 pony      do.   brandy. The juice of  of a lemon.
Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and ornament with fruits in season, and serve with a straw.

69th Regiment Punch.
(In earthen mug.)
wine-glass of Irish whiskey.      do.     do.   Scotch do. 1 tea-spoonful of sugar. 1 piece of lemon. 2 wine-glasses of hot water. This is a capital punch for a cold night.

Louisiana Sugar-House Punch.
(From a recipe in the possession of Colonel T. B. Thorpe.)
To one quart of boiling syrup, taken from the kettles, add whiskey or brandy to suit the "patient." Flavor with the juice of sour oranges.

Dry Punch.
(From a recipe by Santina, the celebrated Spanish caterer.)
2 gallons of brandy. 1      do.      water.       do.      tea. 1 pint of Jamaica rum.    do.    Curaçoa. Juice of six lemons.  lb. white sugar.
Mix thoroughly, and strain, as already described in the recipe for "Punch à la Ford," adding more sugar and lemon juice, if to taste. Bottle, and keep on ice for three or four days, and the punch will be ready for use, but the longer it stands, the better it gets.

La Patria Punch.
(For a party of twenty.)
(From a recipe in the possession of H. P. Leland, Esq.)
3 bottles of champagne, iced. 1 bottle of Cognac. 6 oranges. 1 pineapple.
Slice the oranges and pineapples in a bowl, pour the cognac over them, and let them steep for a couple of hours, then in with the champagne and serve immediately.

The Spread Eagle Punch.
1 bottle of Islay whiskey. 1 bottle Monongahela, Lemon peel, sugar and—boiling water at discretion.

Rochester Punch.
(For a party of twenty.)
(From a recipe in the possession of Boswell Hart, Esq.)
2 bottles of sparkling Catawba. 2      do.      do.          Isabella. 1      do.       Sauterne. 2 wine glasses of maraschino. 2     do.     do.      Curaçoa.
Fill the tranquil bowl with ripe strawberries. Should the strawberry season be over, or under, add a few drops of extract of peach or vanilla.

Imperial Punch.
1 bottle of claret. 1      do.    soda-water. 4 table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar.  teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 1 liqueur glass of maraschino. About  lb. of ice. 3 or 4 slices of cucumber rind.
Put all the ingredients into a bowl or pitcher and mix well.

Thirty-Second Regiment or Victoria Punch.
(For a party of twenty.)
(Receipts from the late Wm. H. Herbert, Esq.)
6 lemons, in slices.  gallon of brandy.      do.      Jamaica rum. 1 lb. of white sugar.  quart of water. 1 pint of "boiling milk.
Steep the lemons for twenty-four hours in the brandy and rum; add the sugar, water and milk, and when well mixed, strain through a jelly-bag.
This punch may be bottled, and used afterward hot or cold.
Half the above quantity, or even less, may be made, as this recipe is for a party of twenty.

Rocky Mountain Punch.
(For a mixed party of twenty.)
(From a recipe in the possession of Major James Foster.)
This delicious punch is compounded as follows:
5 bottles of champagne. 1 quart of Jamaica rum. 1 pint of maraschino. 6 lemons, sliced. Sugar to taste.
Mix the above ingredients in a large punch-bowl, then place in the centre of the bowl a large square block of ice, ornamented on top with rock candy, loaf-sugar, sliced lemons or oranges, and fruits in season. This is a splendid punch for New Year's Day.

Punch Grassot.
(The following recipe was given by M. Grassot, the eminent French comedian of the Palais Royal, to Mr. Howard Paul, the celebrated "Entertainer," when performing in Paris.)
1 wine-glass of brandy. 5 drops of Curaçoa. 1      do.    acetic acid. 2 teaspoonfuls of simple syrup. 1 teaspoonful of syrup of strawberries.  of a pint of water. The peel of a small lemon, sliced.
Mix, serve up with ice, in large goblet, and, if possible, garnish the top with a slice of peach or apricot. In cold weather this punch is admirable served hot.

Light Guard Punch.
(For a party of twenty.)
3 bottles of champagne. 1     do.      pale sherry. 1     do.      Cognac. 1     do.      Sauterne. 1 pineapple, sliced. 4 lemons, do
Sweeten to taste, mix in a punch-bowl, cool with a large lump of ice, and serve immediately.

Philadelphia Fish-House Punch.
(From a recipe In the possession of Charles G. Leland, Esq.)
pint of lemon juice.  lb. of white sugar. 1 pint of mixture.*  pints of cold water.
The above is  generally sufficient for one person.

Non-Such Punch.
6 bottles of claret. 6     do.      soda-water. 1     do.      brandy. 1     do.      sherry,  pint of green tea. Juice of three lemons.  of a pineapple cut up in small pieces.
Sweeten with white sugar to taste. Strain a bottle immediately. Keep for one month before using.
* To make this mixture, take  pint of peach brandy,  pint of Cognac brandy, and  pint of Jamaica rum.
This is a delicious and safe drink for a mixed evening party. Cool before serving.

Canadian Punch.
2 quarts of rye whiskey. 1 pint of Jamaica rum. 6 lemons, sliced, 1 pineapple, do. 4 quarts of water. Sweeten to taste, and ice.

Tip-Top Punch.
(For a party of five.)
1 bottle of champagne. 2     do.     soda-water. 1 liqueur glass of Curaçoa.  2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar.  1 slice of pineapple, cut up.
Put all the ingredients together in a small punch-bowl, mix well, and serve in champagne goblets.

Arrack.
Most of the arrack imported into this country is distilled from rice, and comes from Batavia. It is but little used in America, except to flavor punch; the taste of it is very agreeable in this mixture. Arrack improves very much with age. It is much used in some parts of India, where it is distilled from toddy, the juice of the cocoanut tree. An imitation of arrack punch is made by adding to a bowl of punch a few grains of benzoin, commonly called

MULLS AND SANGAREES.

Mulled wine without Eggs.
To every pint of wine allow: 1 small tumblerful of water. Sugar and spice to taste.
In making preparations like the above, it is very difficult to give the exact proportions of ingredients like sugar and spice, as what quantity might suit one person would be to another quite distasteful. Boil the spice in the water until the flavor is extracted, then add the wine and sugar, and bring the whole to the boiling point, then serve with strips of crisp, dry toast, or with biscuits. The spices usually used for mulled wine are cloves, grated nutmeg, and cinnamon or mace. Any kind of wine may be mulled, but port or claret are those usually selected for the purpose; and the latter requires a large proportion of sugar. The vessel that the wine is boiled in must be delicately clean.

Mulled Wine with Eggs.
1 quart of wine. 1 pint of water.
1 table-spoonful of allspice, and nutmeg to taste ; boil
them together a few minutes; beat up six eggs with sugar to your taste; pour the boiling wine on the eggs, stirring it all the time. Be careful not to pour the eggs into the wine, or they will curdle.

Mulled Wine.
(With the whites of eggs.)
Dissolve 1 lb. sugar in two pints of hot water, to which add two and a half pints of good sherry wine, and let the mixture be set upon the fire until it is almost ready to boil. Meantime beat up the whites of twelve eggs to a froth, and pour into them the hot mixture, stirring rapidly. Add a little nutmeg.

Mulled Wine.
(In verse.)
"First, my dear madam, you must take  Nine eggs, which carefully you'll break—   Into a bowl you'll drop the white,  The yolks into another by it.  Let Betsy beat the whites with switch,   Till they appear quite frothed and rich—  Another hand the yolks must beat  With sugar, which will make them sweet;  Three or four spoonfuls may be'll do,  Though some, perhaps, would take but two.   Into a skillet next you'll pour  A bottle of good wine, or more—  Put half a pint of water, too,  Or it may prove too strong for you;  And while the eggs (by two) are beating,  The wine and water may be heating;  But, when it comes to boiling heat, The yolks and whites together beat With half a pint of water more— Mixing them well, then gently pour  Into the skillet with the wine, And stir it briskly all the time. Then pour it off into a pitcher;  Grate nutmeg in to make it richer. Then drink it hot, for he's a fool, Who lets such precious liquor cool."

Mulled Claret.
(A la Lord Saltown.)
For this recipe see No. 191.

Port Wine Sangaree.
(Use small bar glass.)
wine-glass of port wine. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Fill tumbler two-thirds with ice. Shake well and grate nutmeg on top.

Sherry Sangaree.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 wine-glass of sherry. 1 teaspoonful of fine sugar. Fill tumbler one-third with ice, and grate nutmeg on top.

Brandy Sangaree.
(Use small bar glass.)
The brandy sangaree is made with the same ingredients as the brandy toddy (see No. 133), omitting the nutmeg. Fill two-thirds full of ice, and dash about a teaspoonful of port wine, so that it will float on top.

Gin Sangaree.
(Use small bar glass.)
The gin sangaree is made with the same ingredients as the gin toddy (see No. 134), emitting the nutmeg. Fill two-thirds full of ice, and dash about a teaspoonful of port wine, so that it will float on tie top.

Ale Sangaree.
(Use large bar glass.)
1 teaspoonful of sugar, dissolved in a tablespoonful of water.
Fill the tumbler with ale, and grate nutmeg on top.

Porter Sangaree.
(Use large bar glass.)
This beverage is made the same as an ale sangaree, and is sometimes called porteree.



TODDIES AND SLINGS.

Apple Toddy.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 table-spoonful of fine white sugar. 1 wine-glass of cider brandy.  of a baked apple.
Fill the glass two-thirds full of boiling water, and grate a little nutmeg on top.

Brandy Toddy.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 teaspoonful of sugar.  wine-glass of water. 1          do.          brandy. 1 small lump of ice. Stir with a spoon.
For hot brandy toddy omit the ice, and use boiling water.

Whiskey Toddy.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 teaspoonful of sugar.  wine-glass of water. 1        do.          whiskey. 1 small lump of ice. Stir with a spoon.

Gin Toddy.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 teaspoonful of sugar.  wine-glass of water. 1         do.          gin. 1 small lump of ice. Stir with a spoon.

Brandy Sling.
(Use small bar glass.)
The brandy sling is made with the same ingredients as the brandy toddy, except you grate a little nutmeg on top.

Hot Whiskey Sling.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 wine-glass of whiskey.
Fill tumbler one-third full with boiling water, and grate nutmeg on top.

Gin Sling.
(Use small bar glass.)
The gin sling is made with the same ingredients as the gin toddy, except you grate a little nutmeg on top.



FIXES AND SOURS.

Brandy Fix.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 table-spoonful of sugar.         a wine-glass of water.  of a lemon.                           1             do.          brandy.
Fill a tumbler two-thirds full of shaved ice. Stir with a spoon, and dress the top with fruit in season.*
141, Gin Fix.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 table-spoonful of sugar.  a wine-glass of water.  of a lemon.                            1            do.             gin.
Fill two-thirds full of shaved ice. Stir with a spoon, and ornament the top with fruits in season.

Brandy Sour.
(Use small bar glass.)
The brandy sour is made with the same ingredients as the brandy fix, omitting all fruits except a small piece of lemon, the juice of which must be pressed in the glass.

Gin Sour.
(Use small bar glass.)
The gin sour is made with the same ingredients as the gin fix, omitting all fruits, except a small piece of lemon, . the juice of which must be pressed in the glass. ✝
* The Santa Cruz fix is made by substituting Santa Cruz rum instead of brandy.
✝ The Santa Cruz sour is made by substituting Santa Cruz rum instead of gin. In making fixes and sours be careful and put the lemon skin in the glass.



FLIP, NEGUS AND SHRUB.

Rum Flip.
—Which Dibdin has immortalized as the favorite beverage of sailors (although we believe they seldom indulge in it) —is made by adding a gill of rum to the beer, or substituting rum and water, when malt liquor cannot be procured. The essential in "flips" of all sorts is, to produce the smoothness by repeated pouring back and forward between two vessels, and beating up the eggs well in the first instance; the sweetening and spices according to taste.

Rum Flip.
(Another method.)
Keep grated ginger and nutmeg with a little fine dried lemon peel, rubbed together in a mortar.
To make a quart of flip:—Put the ale on the fire to warm, and beat up three or four eggs with four ounces of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg or ginger, and a gill of good old rum or brandy. When the ale is near to boil, put it into one pitcher, and the rum and eggs, &c., into another; turn it from one pitcher to another till it is as smooth as cream.

Ale Flip.
Put on the fire in a saucepan one quart of ale, and let it boil; have ready the whites of two eggs and the yolks of four, well beaten up separately; add them by degrees
to four table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and half a nutmeg grated. When all are well mixed, pour on the boiling ale by degrees, beating up the mixture continually; then pour it rapidly backward and forward from one jug to another, keeping one jug raised high above the other, till the flip is. smooth and finely frothed. This is a good remedy to take at the commencement of a cold.

Egg Flip.
Put a quart of ale in a tinned saucepan on the fire to boil; in the mean time, beat up the yolks of four, with the whites of two eggs, adding four table.spoonfuls of brown sugar and a little nutmeg; pour on the ale by degrees, beating up, so as to prevent the mixture from curdling; then pour back and forward repeatedly from vessel to vessel, raising the hand to as great a height as possible— which process produces the smoothness and frothing essential to the good quality of the flip. This is excellent for a cold, and, from its fleecy appearance, is sometimes designated " a yard of flannel."

Egg Flip.
(Another method.)
Beat up, in a jug, four new-laid eggs, omitting two of the whites; add half a dozen large lumps of sugar, and rub these well in the eggs, pour in boiling water, about half a pint at a time, and when the jug is nearly full, throw in two tumblers of Cognac brandy, and one of old Jamaica rum.

Brandy Flip.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 teaspoonful of sugar. 1 wine-glass of brandy.
Fill the tumbler one-third full of hot water, mix, and place a toasted cracker on top, and grate nutmeg over it.

Port Wine Negus.
To every pint of port wine allow: 1 quart of boiling water.  lb. of loaf-sugar. 1 lemon. Grated nutmeg to taste.
Put the wine into a jug, rub some lumps of sugar (equal to  lb.) on the lemon rind until all the yellow part of the skin is absorbed, then squeeze the juice and strain it. Add the sugar and lemon-juice to the port wine, with the grated nutmeg; pour over it the boiling water, cover the jug, and when the beverage has cooled a little, it will be fit for use. Negus may also be made of sherry, or any other sweet wine, but it is more usually made of port. This beverage derives its name from Colonel Negus, who is said to have invented it.

Port Wine Negus.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 wine-glass of port wine. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Fill tumbler one-third full with hot water.

Soda Negus.
A most refreshing and elegant beverage, particularly for those who do not take punch or grog after supper, is thus made:
Put half a pint of port wine, with four lumps of sugar, three cloves, and enough grated nutmeg to cover a shilling, into a saucepan; warm it well, but do not suffer it to boil; pour it into a bowl or jug, and upon the warm wine decant a bottle of soda-water. You will have an effervescing and delicious negus by this means.

Cherry Shrub.
Pick ripe acid cherries from the stem, put them in an earthen pot; place that in an iron pot of water; boil till the juice is extracted; strain it through a cloth thick enough to retain the pulp, and sweeten it to your taste. When perfectly clear, bottle it, sealing the cork. By first putting a gill of brandy into each bottle, it will keep through the summer. It is delicious mixed with water. Irish or Monongahela whiskey will answer instead of the brandy, though not as good.

White Currant Shrub.
Strip the fruit, and prepare in a jar, as for jelly; strain the juice, of which put two quarts to one gallon of rum, and two pounds of lump-sugar; strain through a jelly-bag.

Currant Shrub.
1 lb. of sugar. 1 pint of strained currant juice.
Boil it gently eight or ten minutes, skimming it well; take it off, and when lukewarm, add half a gill of brandy to every pint of shrub. Bottle tight.

Raspberry Shrub.
1 quart of vinegar. 3 quarts of ripe raspberries.
After standing a day, strain it, adding to each pint a pound of sugar, and skim it clear, while boiling about half an hour. Put a wine-glass of brandy to each pint of the shrub, when cool. Two spoonfuls of this mixed with a tumbler of water, is an excellent drink in warm weather, and in fevers.

Brandy Shrub.
To the thin rinds of two lemons, and the juice of five, add two quarts of brandy; cover it for three days, then add a quart of sherry and two pounds of loaf-sugar, run it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it.
159, Rum Shrub.
Put three pints of orange juice, and one pound of loaf sugar to a gallon of rum. Put all into a cask, and leave it for six weeks, when it will be ready for use.

English Rum Shrub.
To three gallons of best Jamaica rum, add a quart of orange juice, a pint of lemon juice, with the peels of the latter fruit cut very thin, and six pounds of powdered white sugar.
Let these be covered close, and remain so all night; next day boil three pints of fresh milk, and let it get cold, then pour it on the spirit and juice, mix them Well, and let it stand for an hour. Filter it through a flannel bag lined with blotting-paper, into bottles; cork down as soon as each is filled.



FANCY DRINKS.
The following miscellaneous collection of fancy beverages, embraces a number of French, Spanish, English, Russian, Italian, German, and American recipes.

Santina's Pousse Cafe.
(Use small wine-glass.)
This delicious drink is from a recipe by SANTINA, proprietor of "Santina's Saloon" a celebrated Spanish Café, in New Orleans.
brandy (cognac).  maraschino.  Curaçoa. Mix well.

Parisian Pousse Cafe.
(Use small wine-glass.)
Curaçoa.  Kirschwasser.  Chartreuse.
This is a celebrated Parisian drink.

Faivre's Pousse Cafe.
(Use small wine-glass.)
Parisian pousse café (as above).  Kirschwasser.  Curaçoa.
This celebrated drink is from the recipe of M. FAIVRE, a popular proprietor of a "French Saloon" in New York.

Pousse l'Amour.
This delightful French drink is described in the above engraving. To mix it fill a small wine-glass half full of maraschino, then put in the pure yolk of an egg, surround the yolk with vanilla cordial, and dash the top with Cognac brandy.

Brandy Champerelle.
(Use small wine-glass.)
brandy.  Bogart's bitters.  Curaçoa.
This is a delicious French cafe drink.

Brandy Scaffa.
(Use wino-glass.)
brandy.  maraschino. 2 dashes of bitters.

Sleeper.
To a gill of old rum add one ounce of sugar, two yolks of eggs, and the juice of half a lemon; boil half a pint
of water with six cloves, six coriander-seeds, and a bit of cinnamon; whisk all together, and strain them into a tumbler.

Claret and Champagne Cup, à la Brunow.
(For a party of twenty.)
The following claret and champagne cup ought, from its excellence, to be called the nectar of the Czar, as it is so highly appreciated in Russia, where for many years it has enjoyed a high reputation amongst the aristocracy of the Muscovite empire. Proportions:
3 bottles of claret.  pint of Curaçoa. 1    do.    sherry.    do.    brandy. 2 wine-glasses* ratafia of raspberries. 3 oranges and 1 lemon, cut in slices.
Some sprigs of green balm, and of borage, a small piece of rind of cucumber.
2 bottles of German Seltzer-water. 3      do.      soda-water.
Stir this together, and sweeten with capillaire or pounded sugar, until it ferments; let it stand one hour, strain it, and ice it well; it is then fit for use. Serve in small glasses.
The same for champagne cup: champagne instead of claret; noyau instead of ratafia.
This quantity is for an evening party of twenty persons. For a smaller number reduce the proportions.
* 170. Ratafias. Every liqueur made by infusions is called ratifia; that is, when the spirit is made to imbibe thoroughly the aromatic flavor and color of the fruit steeped in it: when this has taken place, the liqueur is drawn off, and sugar added to it; it is then filtered and bottled. See recipe No. 306 in " The Manual for the Manufacture of Cordials, etc.," in the latter part of this work.

Balaklava Nectar. (By Soyer.)
(For a party of fifteen.)
Thinly peel the rind of half a lemon, shred it fine, and put it in a punch-bowl; add two table-spoonfuls of crushed sugar, and the juice of two lemons, the half of a small cucumber sliced thin, with the peel on; toss it up several times, then add 2 bottles of soda-water, 2 of claret, 1 of champagne, stir well together, and serve.

Crimean Cup, a la Marmora.
(From a recipe by the celebrated Soyer.)
(For a party of thirty.)
1 quart of syrup of orgeat. 1 pint of Cognac brandy.    do.   maraschino.    do.   Jamaica rum. 2 bottles of champagne. 2      do.      soda-water. 6 ounces of sugar. 4 middling-sized lemons.
Thinly peel the lemons, and place the rind in a bowl with the sugar, macerate them well for a minute or two, in order to extract the flavor from the lemon. Next squeeze the juice of the lemons upon this, add two bottles of soda-water, and stir well till the sugar is dissolved; pour in the syrup of orgeat, and whip the mixture well with an egg-whisk, in order to whiten the composition. Then add the brandy, rum and maraschino, strain the whole into the punch-bowl, and just before serving add the champagne, which should be well iced. While adding the champagne, stir well with the ladle; this will render the cup creamy and mellow.
Half the quantity given here, or even less, may be made; this recipe being for a party of thirty.

Crimean Cup, a la Wyndham.
(For a party of five.)
Thinly peel the rind of half an orange, put it into a bowl, with a table-spoonful of crushed sugar, and macerate with the ladle for a minute; then add one large wine-glass of maraschino, half one of Cognac, half one of Curaçoa. Mix well together, pour in two bottles of soda-water, and one of champagne, during which time work it up and down with the punch-ladle, and it is ready.
Half a pound of pure ice is a great improvement.

Tom and Jerry.
(Use punch-bowl for the mixture.)
5 lbs. sugar. 12 eggs.  small glass of Jamaica rum.  teaspoonful of ground cinnamon,          do.               do.      cloves,         do.                do        allspice.
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and the yolks until they are as thin as water, then mix together and add the spice and rum, thicken with sugar until the mixture attains the consistence of a light batter.
To deal out Tom and Jerry to customers: . Take a small bar glass, and to one table-spoonful of tho above mixture, add one wine-glass of brandy, and fill the glass with boiling water, grate a little nutmeg on top.
Adepts at the bar, in serving Tom and Jerry, sometimes adopt a mixture of £ brandy, i Jamaica rum, and J Santa Cruz rum, instead of brandy plain. This compound is
usually mixed and kept in a bottle, and a wine-glassful is used to each tumbler of Tom and Jerry.
N. B.—A tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, or about as much carbonate of soda as you can get on a dime, will prevent the sugar from settling to the bottom of the mixture.
This drink is sometimes called Copenhagen, and sometimes Jerry Thomas.

White Tiger's Milk.
(From recipe in the possession of Thomas Dunn English, Esq.)
gill apple-jack.  do. peach brandy.  teaspoonful of aromatic tincture.* Sweeten with white sugar to taste. The white of an egg beaten to a stiff foam. 1 quart of pure milk.
Pour in the mixed liquors to the milk, stirring all the white till all is well mixed, then sprinkle with nutmeg.
The above recipe is sufficient to make a full quart of "white tiger's milk;" if more is wanted, you can increase the above proportions. If you want to prepare this beverage for a party of twenty, use one gallon of milk to one pint of apple-jack, &c.

White Lion.
(Use small bar glass.)
teaspoonful of pulverized white sugar.  a lime (squeeze out juice and put rind in glass). 1 wine-glass Santa Cruz rum.  teaspoonful of Curaçoa.          do.            raspberry syrup.
* Aromatic Tincture.—Take of ginger, cinnamon, orange peel, each one ounce; valerian half an ounce, alcohol two quarts, macerate in a close vessel for fourteen days, then filter through unsized paper.
Mix well, ornament with berries in season, and cool with shaved ice.

Locomotive.
Put two yolks of eggs into a goblet with an ounce of honey, a little essence of cloves, and a liqueur-glass of Curaçoa; add a pint of high Burgundy made hot, whisk well together, and serve hot in glasses.

Bishop.
(A la Prusse.)
A favorite beverage, made with claret or port. It is prepared as follows: roast four good-sized bitter oranges till they are of a pale-brown color, lay them in a tureen, and put over them half a pound of pounded loaf-sugar, and three glasses of claret; place the cover on the tureen and let it stand till the next day. When required for use, put the tureen into a pan of boiling water, press the oranges with a spoon, and run the juice through a sieve; then boil the remainder of the bottle of claret, taking care that it does not burn; add it to the strained juice, and serve it warm in glasses. Port wine will answer the purpose as well as claret. "Bishop" is sometimes made with the above materials, substituting lemons instead of oranges, but this is not often done when claret is used. See recipe No 38, in "The Manual for the Manufacture of Cordials, etc." at the latter part of this work.

Bishop.
(Another recipe.)
Stick an orange full of cloves, and roast it before a fire. When brown enough, cut it in quarters, and pour over it a quart of hot port wine, add sugar to the taste, let the mixture simmer for half an hour.

Archbishop.
The same as Bishop, substituting claret for the port.

Cardinal.
Same as above, substituting champagne for claret.

Pope.
Same as above, substituting Burgundy for champagne.

A Bishop.
(Protestant)
4 table-spoons of white sugar. 2 tumblers of water. 1 lemon, in slices. 1 bottle of claret. 4 table-spoons of Santa Cruz or Jamaica. Ice.

Knickerbocker.
(Use small bar glass.)
a lime, or lemon, squeeze out the juice, and put rind and juice in the glass.   2 teaspoonfuls of raspberry syrup.   1 wine-glass Santa Cruz rum.    teaspoonful of Curaçoa.
Cool with shaved ice; shake up well, and ornament with berries in season. If this is not sweet enough, put in a little more raspberry syrup.

Rumfustian.
This is the singular name bestowed upon a drink very much in vogue with English sportsmen, after their return from a day's shooting, and is concocted thus:
The yolks of a dozen eggs are well whisked up, and put into a quart of strong beer; to this is added a pint of gin; a bottle of sherry is put into a saucepan, with a stick of cinnamon, a nutmeg grated, a dozen large lumps of sugar, and the rind of a lemon peeled very thin; when the wine boils, it is poured upon the gin and beer, and the whole drunk hot.

Claret Cup.
To a bottle of thin claret add half a pint of cold water, a table-spoonful of finely powdered sugar, and a teaspoonful of cinnamon, cloves, and allspice, finely powdered and mixed together. Mix all well together, then add half the thin rind of a small lemon. This is a delicious summer beverage for evening parties. See No. 191.

Porter Cup.
Mix in a tankard or covered jug a bottle of porter, and an equal quantity of table-ale; pour in a glass of brandy, a dessert-spoonful of syrup of ginger, add three or four lumps of sugar, and half a nutmeg grated; cover it down, and expose it to the cold for half an hour; just before sending it to table, stir in a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Add the fresh-cut rind of a cucumber.

English Curaçoa.
Cut away the peel of oranges very thin, until you have obtained half a dozen ounces of it; put these into a quart bottle, and then pour in a pint of genuine whiskey. Cork the bottle down tightly, and let the rind remain infused for ten or twelve days, giving the bottle a good shake as often as you have an opportunity for so doing; at the end of this period, take out the orange peel, and fill the bottle
with clarified syrup, shake it well with the spirit, and let it remain for three days. Pour a teacupful of the liqueur into a mortar, and beat up a drachm of powdered alum, and an equal quantity of carbonate of potash; pour this, when well mixed, into the bottle, shake it well, and in a week you will find the Curaçoa perfectly transparent, and equal in flavor to that imported from Malines, or any other place in the universe.

Italian Lemonade.
Pare and press two dozen lemons; pour the juice on the peels, and let it remain on them all night; in the morning add two pounds of loaf-sugar, a quart of good sherry, and three quarts of boiling water. Mix well, add a quart of boiling milk, and strain it through a jelly-bag till clear.

Quince Liqueur.
2 quarts of quince juice. 4     do.      Cognac brandy.  lbs. of white sugar. 12 ounces of bitter almonds, bruised. 1 lb. of coriander-seeds. 36 cloves.
Grate a sufficient number of quinces to make 2 quarts of juice, and squeeze them through a jelly-bag. Mix the ingredients all together, and put them in a demijohn, and shake them well every day for ten days. Then strain the liquid through a jelly-bag till it is perfectly clear, and bottle for use. This is a delightful liqueur, and can be relied upon, as it is from a recipe in the possession of a lady who is famous for concocting delicious potations.

Claret Cup, or Mulled Claret.
(A la Lord Saltoun.)
Peel one lemon fine, add to it some white pounded sugar; pour over one glass of sherry, then add a bottle of claret (vin ordinaire, the best), and sugar to taste; add a sprig of verbena, one bottle of soda-water, and nutmeg, if you like it. For cup, strain and ice it well. For mull, heat it and serve it hot.

Bottled Velvet.
(A la Sir John Bayley.)
A bottle of Moselle, half a pint of sherry, the peel of a lemon, not too much, so as to have the flavor predominate; two table-spoonfuls of sugar; add a sprig of verbena; all must be well mixed, and then strained and iced.

Champagne, Hock or Chablis Cup.
(A la Goodriche.)
Dissolve four or five lumps of sugar in a quarter of a pint of boiling water, with a little very thin lemon peel; let it stand a quarter of an hour; add one bottle of the above wines, and a sprig of verbena, a small glass of sherry; half a pint of water. Mix well, and let stand half an hour; strain, and ice it well.

Cider Nectar.
(A la Harold Littledale.)
1 quart of cider. 1 bottle of soda-water. 1 glass of sherry. 1 small glass of brandy.
Juice of half a lemon, peel of quarter of a lemon; sugar and nutmeg to taste; a sprig of verbena. Flavor it to taste with extract of pineapple. Strain, and ice it all well. This is a delicious beverage, and only requires to be tasted to be appreciated.

Badminton.
Peel half of a middle-sized cucumber, and put it into a silver cup, with four ounces of powdered sugar a little nutmeg, and a bottle of claret. When the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, pour in a bottle of soda-water, and it is fit for use.



MISCELLANEOUS DRINKS.

Blue Blazer.
(Use two large silver-plated mugs, with handles.)
1 wine-glass of Scotch whiskey. 1         do.          boiling water.
Put the whiskey and the boiling water in one mug, ignite the liquid with fire, and while blazing mix both ingredients by pouring them four or five times from one mug to the other, as represented in the cut. If well done this will have the appearance of a continued stream of liquid fire.
Sweeten with one teaspoonful of pulverized white sugar, and serve in a small bar tumbler, with a piece of lemon peel.
The "blue blazer" does not have a very euphonious or
classic name, but it tastes better to the palate than it sounds to the ear. A beholder gazing for the first time upon an experienced artist, compounding this beverage, would naturally come to the conclusion that it was a nectar for Pluto rather than Bacchus. The novice in mixing this beverage should be careful not to scald himself. To become proficient in throwing the liquid from one mug to the other, it will be necessary to practise for some time with cold water.

"Jerry Thomas'" own Decanter Bitters.
lb. of raisins. 2 ounces of cinnamon. 1 do. snake-root. 1 lemon and 1 orange cut in slices. 1 ounce of cloves. 1     do.     allspice. Fill decanter with Santa Cruz rum. Bottle and serve out in pony glasses. As fast as the bitters is used fill up again with rum.

Burnt Brandy and Peach.
(Use small bar glass.)
This drink is very popular in the Southern States, where it is sometimes used as a cure for diarrhoea.
Place the dried fruit in a glass and pour the liquid over them.

Black Stripe.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 wine-glass of Santa Cruz rum. 1 table-spoonful of molasses.
This drink can either be made in summer or winter: if in the former season, mix in 1 table-spoonful of water, and cool with shaved ice; if in the latter, fill up the tumbler with boiling water. Grate a little nutmeg on top.

Peach and Honey.
(Use small bar glass)
1 table-spoonful of honey. 1 wine-glass of peach brandy. Stir with a spoon.

Grin and Pine.
(Use wine-glass.)
Split a piece of the heart of a green pine log into fine splints, about the size of a cedar lead-pencil, take 2 ounces of the same and put into a quart decanter, and fill the decanter with gin.
Let the pine soak for two hours, and the gin will be ready to serve.

Gin and Tansy.
(Use wine-glass.)
Fill a quart decanter  full of tansy, and pour in gin to fill up the balance  tansy to  gin. Serve to customers in a wine-glass.

Gin and "Wormwood.
(Use small bar glass.)
Put three or four sprigs of wormwood into a quart decanter, and fill up with gin.
The above three drinks are not much used except in small country villages.

Scotch Whiskey Skin.
(Use small bar glass)
1 wine-glass of Scotch whiskey. 1 piece of lemon peel.
Fill the tumbler one-half full with boiling water.

Columbia Skin.
(Use small bar glass.)
This is a Boston drink, and is made the same as a whiskey skin.

Hot Spiced Rum.
(Use Email bar glass.)
1 teaspoonful of sugar. 1 wine-glass of Jamaica rum. 1 teaspoonful of mixed spices, (allspice and cloves.) 1 piece of butter as large as half of a chestnut. Fill tumbler with hot water.

Hot Rum.
(Use small bar glass.)
This drink is made the same as the hot spiced rum, omitting the spices, and grating a little nutmeg on top.

Stone Fence.
(Use large bar glass.)
1 wine-glass of whiskey (Bourbon). 2 or 3 small lumps of ice. Fill up the glass with sweet cider.

Absinthe.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 wine-glass of absinthe.
Pour water, drop by drop, until the glass is full. Never use a spoon.

Rhine "Wine and Seltzer-Water.
(Use large bar glass.)
Fill large bar glass half full with Rhine wine, and fill balance with Seltzer-water. This is a German drink, and is not very likely to be called for at an American bar.

"Arf and Art"
(Use large bar glass.)
In London this drink is made by mixing half porter and half ale, in America it is made by mixing half new and half old ale.

Brandy Straight.
(Use small bar glass)
In serving this drink you simply put a piece of ice in a tumbler, and hand to your customer, with the bottle of brandy. This is very safe for a steady drink, but though a straight beverage, it is often used on a bender.

Gin Straight.
(Use small bar glass)
Same as brandy straight, substituting gin for brandy.

Pony Brandy.
(Use pony-glass.)
Fill the pony-glass with (Sasarac) best brandy, and hand it to your customer.

Brandy and Soda.
(Sometimes called Stone Wall.)
(Use large bar glass.)
1 wine-glass of Cognac brandy.  glass of fine ice. Fill up with plain soda.

Brandy and Gum.
(Use small bar glass.)
Same as brandy straight, with one dash of gum syrup.

Sherry and Egg.
(Use small bar glass.)
1 Egg. 1 wine-glass of sherry.

Sherry and Bitters.
1 dash of bitters. 1 wine-glass of sherry.

Sherry and Ice.
(Use small bar glass.)
Put two lumps of ice in a glass, and fill with wine.



TEMPERANCE DRINKS.

Lemonade*
(Use large bar glass.)
The juice of half a lemon.  table-spoonful of sugar. 2 or three pieces of orange. 1 table-spoonful of raspberry or strawberry syrup.
Fill the tumbler one-half full with shaved ice, the balance with water; dash with port wine, and ornament with fruits in season.

Plain Lemonade.
(From a recipe by the celebrated Soyer.)
Cut in very thin slices 3 lemons, put them in a basin, add half a pound of sugar, either white or brown; bruise all together, add a gallon of water, and stir well. It is then ready.

Lemonade.
(Fine for parties.)
The rind of 2 lemons juice of 3 large do.  lb. of loaf-sugar. 1 quart of boiling water.
Rub some of the sugar, in lumps, on two of the lemons
until they have imbibed all the oil from them, and put it with the remainder of the sugar into a jug; add the lemon juice (but no pips), and pour over the whole a quart of boiling water. When the sugar is dissolved, strain the lemonade through a piece of muslin, and, when cool, it will be ready for use.
* See recipes Nos. 255, 256, and 257 in "The Manual for the Manufacture of Cordials, etc.," at the latter part of this work.
The lemonade will be much improved by having the white of an egg beaten up with it; a little sherry mixed with it also makes this beverage much nicer.

Orangeade.
This agreeable beverage is made the same way as lemonade, substituting oranges for lemons.

Orgeat Lemonade.
(Use large bar glass.)
wine-glass of orgeat syrup. The juice of half of a lemon.
Fill the tumbler one-third full of ice, and balance with water. Shake well, and ornament with berries in season.

Ginger Lemonade.
Boil twelve pounds and a half of lump-sugar for twenty minutes in ten gallons of water; clear it with the whites of six eggs. Bruise half a pound of common ginger, boil with the liquor, and then pour it upon ten lemons pared. When quite cold, put it in a cask, with two table-spoonfuls of yeast, the lemons sliced, and half an ounce of isinglass. Bung up the cask the next day; it will be ready in two weeks.

Soda Nectar.
(Use large tumbler.)
Juice of 1 lemon.  tumblerful of water. Powdered white sugar to taste.   small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda.
Strain the juice of the lemon, and add it to the water, with sufficient white sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. When well mixed, put in the soda, stir well, and drink while the mixture is in an effervescing state.

Drink for the Dog Days.
A bottle of soda-water poured into a large goblet, in which a lemon ice has been placed, forms a deliciously cool and refreshing drink; but should be taken with some care, and positively avoided whilst you are very hot.

Sherbet.
Eight ounces of carbonate of soda, six ounces of tartaric acid, two pounds of loaf-sugar (finely powdered), three drachms of essence of lemon. Let the powders be very dry. Mix them intimately, and keep them for use in a wide-mouthed bottle, closely corked. Put two good-sized teaspoonfuls into a tumbler; pour in half a pint of cold water, stir briskly, and drink off.

Lemonade Powders.
One pound of finely-powdered loaf-sugar, one ounce of tartaric or citric acid, and twenty drops of essence of lemon. Mix, and keep very dry. Two or three teaspoonfuls of this stirred briskly in a tumbler of water will make a very pleasant glass of lemonade. If effervescent lemonade be desired, one ounce of carbonate of soda must be added to the above.

Draught Lemonade, or Lemon Sherbet.
Four lemons sliced, four ounces of lump-sugar, one quart of boiling water. Very fine. A cheaper drink may be made thus:—One ounce of cream of tartar, one ounce of tartaric or citric acid, the juice and peel of two lemons, and half a pound, or more, of loaf-sugar. The sweetening must be regulated according to taste.

Imperial Drink for Families.
Two ounces of cream of tartar, the juice and peel of two or three lemons, and half a pound of coarse sugar. Put these into a gallon pitcher, and pour on boiling water. When cool, it will be fit for use.

Nectar.
One drachm of citric acid, one scruple of bicarbonate of potash, one ounce of white sugar, powdered. Fill a soda water bottle nearly full of water, drop in the potash and sugar, and lastly the citric acid. Cork the bottle up immediately, and shake. As soon as the crystals are dissolved, the nectar is fit for use. It may be colored with a small portion of cochineal.

Raspberry, strawberry, currant, or Orange Effervescing Draughts.
Take one quart of the juice of either of the above fruits, filter it, and boil it into a syrup, with one pound of powdered loaf-sugar. To this add one ounce and a half of tartaric acid. When cold put it into a bottle, and keep it well corked. When required for use, fill a half-pint turn
bier three parts full of water, and add two table-spoonfuls of the syrup. Then stir in briskly a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and a very delicious drink will be formed. The color may be improved by adding a very small portion of cochineal to the syrup at the time of boiling.

Ginger Wine.
Put twelve pounds of loaf-sugar and six ounces of powdered ginger into six gallons of water; let it boil for an hour, then beat up the whites of half a dozen eggs with a whisk, and mix them well with the liquor. When quite cold put it into a barrel, with six lemons cut into slices, and a cupful of yeast; let it work for three days, then put in the bung. In a week's time you may bottle it, and it will be ready for immediate use.
